BGC Partners, Inc. operates as a brokerage company servicing the financial and real estate markets worldwide. It operates in two segments, Financial Services and Real Estate Services. The Financial Services segment provides brokerage services for fixed income, interest rate derivatives, spot foreign exchange, foreign exchange derivatives, government bonds, corporate bonds, credit derivatives, insurance and money market products, energy, metals, equity derivatives, and structured market data products and services. This segment also offers trade execution, broker-dealer, clearing, processing, trade compression, and other back-office services. In addition, it provides screen-based market solutions, which enable its clients to develop a marketplace, trade with their customers, issue debt, trade odd lots, access program trading interfaces, and access its network and intellectual property; software and technology infrastructure for the transactional and technology related elements; and option pricing and analysis tools. Further, this segment offers financial technology solutions, post-trade, and analytics related to financial instruments and markets under the FENICS, BGC Trader, FENICS Market Data, BGC Market Data, Capitalab, and Lucera brands. The Real Estate Services segment offers corporate advisory, investment sales, and agency leasing services; lending and loan servicing, due diligence and underwriting, workplace and occupancy strategy, and corporate and consulting services, as well as intercompany referrals; real estate finance, consulting, appraisal, and valuation services; project and development management services; and property and facilities management services. The company primarily serves banks, broker-dealers, investment banks, trading firms, hedge funds, governments, corporations, property owners, real estate developers, and investment firms, as well as institutional clients. BGC Partners, Inc. was founded in 1945 and is headquartered in New York, New York.