Entellus Medical, Inc., a medical technology company, focuses on the design, development, and commercialization of products for the minimally invasive treatment of patients suffering from chronic and recurrent sinusitis. The company offers XprESS Multi-Sinus Dilation family of products consisting of XprESS Pro device, XprESS LoProfile device, and XprESS Ultra device, which open an obstructed or narrowed drainage pathway of a sinus cavity by means of trans-nasal balloon sinus dilation. It also provides PathAssist tools, such as LED Light Fiber, a single-use tool that provides real-time high intensity red trans-illumination of the sinus cavity with its battery power; Light Fiber, a single-use tool that provides real-time trans-illumination of the sinus cavity; Light Seeker, a tool with optical fibers embedded into the device to allow ear, nose, and throat (ENT) physicians to access the frontal sinus and trans-illuminate the sinus cavity; Maxillary Seeker, a tool that allow users to find the correct angle to access the natural maxillary ostia; and Sphenoid Seeker/Freer, a two-in-one tool that enables ENT physicians to navigate access to the sphenoid ostium. In addition, the company offers FocESS Sinuscopes that provide ENT physicians with a solution for endoscopic visualization during a sinus procedure; and MiniFESS family of surgical instruments, which include various devices that enable physicians to perform traditional surgical procedures. Further, it distributes surgical navigation systems, components, parts, and related ancillary products to ENT physicians; and XeroGel Nasal Packing Material for use in patients undergoing nasal or sinus surgery, as well as for use as a nasal packing to treat epistaxis or nasal bleeding. The company offers its products through a direct sales force in the United States and United Kingdom, as well as through distributors worldwide. Entellus Medical, Inc. was founded in 2006 and is headquartered in Plymouth, Minnesota. As of February 28, 2018, Entellus Medical, Inc. operates as a subsidiary of Stryker Corporation.