Key Technology, Inc., together with its subsidiaries, designs, manufactures, sells, and services process automation systems integrating electro-optical inspection, sorting, and process systems in the United States and internationally. It provides automated inspection systems, including belt-fed sorters, Optyx, Tegra, and Manta that are primarily used in the fresh and frozen fruit, vegetable, and potato products; chute-fed sorters, such as the Taurys, Spyder, Python, and Cayman for sorting nuts, dried and frozen fruits, and vegetables; Veo, an optical sorter for seed corn; VitiSort for red wine grapes; Tobacco Sorter systems used in tobacco threshing and primary processing; and ADR, an automatic defect removal system for use in the potato strip industry. The company also offers automated inspection equipment for solid dose pharmaceuticals and nutraceuticals through its SYMETIX pharmaceutical product line. In addition, it provides conveying and processing equipment comprising Smart Shaker vibratory solutions, which include Iso-Flo, Impulse, and Horizon systems; rotary sizing and grading systems; and SYMETIX equipment for pharmaceuticals and nutraceuticals. Further, the company offers preparation systems consisting of air cleaners and coolers, vegetable metering and blending systems, and bulk handling equipment, as well as integrated whole-line solutions. Additionally, it provides PROliance suite of support services, parts, protection plans, and training solutions; spare parts and post-sale field and telephone-based repair services; RemoteMD, a real-time condition monitoring and diagnostics analysis tool for G6 optical sorters; and online training services covering optical inspection systems and vibratory conveyors. The company markets its products directly, as well as through independent sales representatives. Key Technology, Inc. was founded in 1948 and is headquartered in Walla Walla, Washington. As of March 20, 2018, Key Technology, Inc. operates as a subsidiary of Duravant LLC.