IRVINE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Nov 13, 2019--. The World Poker Tour® and luxury Swiss watchmaker Hublot, the Official Timekeeper of the FIFA World Poker Cup and Formula One, are partnering for a seventh season of exclusive sponsorship. The Swiss watchmaker is the first luxury brand to be both Official Timekeeper and Official Watch of an international poker brand. Season XVIII of the World Poker Tour will award a Hublot Big Bang Steel Ceramic timepiece to each winner of a televised final table at HyperX Esports Arena Las Vegas. Hublot will also award a special-edition, custom watch, valued at $30,000, to the winner of the season-long Hublot WPT® Player of the Year points race. Last season, Erkut Yilmaz won two WPT titles en route to claiming the prestigious prize. Season XVIII marks the sixth season of the Hublot WPT Player of the Year race. WPT and Hublot first partnered in Season XII to award a custom-made Hublot watch to the WPT World Championship winner Keven Stammen. Since then, WPT and Hublot have combined to award 74 watches to WPT Champions around the globe. Among the champions to win a Hublot watch include Season XVII Baccarat Crystal WPT Tournament of Champions winner Ole Schemion, Season XVI Hublot WPT Player of the Year Art Papazyan, four-time WPT Champion Darren Elias, and former WPT Commentator Mike Sexton. Adam Pliska, CEO of the World Poker Tour, said, "The World Poker Tour is proud to extend our exclusive partnership with Hublot for another season. To win a WPT title is among the highest honors in poker, and WPT Champions can look forward to receiving one of the top prizes in sports in the form of a Hublot watch. The WPT continues to celebrate its champions and we can think of no better partner to join in that celebration than our friends at Hublot". Ricardo Guadalupe, CEO of Hublot, said, "Hublot is back with the World Poker Tour again to present seven watches of the highest craftsmanship to the WPT and its champions. The World Poker Tour honors champions with the highest gratitude and Hublot looks forward to celebrating more incredible achievements to join our existing group of champions, including Ferrari and Chelsea FC". Founded in Switzerland in 1980, HUBLOT is defined by its innovative concept, which began with the highly original combination of gold and rubber. This "Art of Fusion" stems from the imagination of its visionary Chairman, Jean-Claude Biver, and has been driven forward by CEO Ricardo Guadalupe since 2012. The release of the iconic, multi-award-winning Big Bang in 2005 paved the way for new flagship collections (Classic Fusion, Spirit of Big Bang), with complications ranging from the simple to the highly sophisticated, establishing the extraordinary DNA of the Swiss watchmaking house and ensuring its impressive growth. Keen to preserve its traditional and cutting-edge expertise, and guided by its philosophy to "Be First, Different and Unique", the Swiss watchmaker is consistently ahead of the curve, through its innovations in materials (scratch-resistant Magic Gold, ceramics in vibrant colours, sapphire), and the creation of Manufacture movements (Unico, Meca-10, Tourbillon). HUBLOT is fully committed to creating a Haute Horlogerie brand with a visionary future: a future which is fused with the key events and brands of our times (FIFA World Cup™, UEFA Champions League™, UEFA EURO™ and Ferrari) and the finest ambassadors our era has to offer (Kylian Mbappé, Usain Bolt, Pelé). Discover the HUBLOT universe at our network of boutiques located in key cities across the globe: Geneva, Paris, London, New York, Hong Kong, Dubai, Tokyo, Singapore, Zürich and at HUBLOT.com. Stay up-to-date with #Hublot. About World Poker Tour. World Poker Tour (WPT) is the premier name in internationally televised gaming and entertainment with brand presence in land-based tournaments, television, online, and mobile. Leading innovation in the sport of poker since 2002, WPT ignited the global poker boom with the creation of a unique television show based on a series of high-stakes poker tournaments. WPT has broadcast globally in more than 150 countries and territories, and is currently producing its 18th season, which airs on FOX Sports Regional Networks in the United States. Season XVIII of WPT is sponsored by ClubWPT.com. ClubWPT.com is a unique online membership site that offers inside access to the WPT, as well as a sweepstakes-based poker club available in 35 states across the United States. WPT also participates in strategic brand license, partnership, and sponsorship opportunities. For more information, go to WPT.com. WPT Enterprises Inc. is a subsidiary of Allied Esports Entertainment, Inc. About Allied Esports Entertainment. Allied Esports Entertainment (NASDAQ: AESE) is a global esports entertainment venture dedicated to providing transformative live experiences, multiplatform content and interactive services to audiences worldwide through its strategic fusion of two powerful entertainment brands: Allied Esports and the World Poker Tour (WPT). Allied Esports Entertainment was created in August 2019 when Black Ridge Acquisition Corp. completed its business combination with Allied Esports and WPT Enterprises. Forward Looking Statements. This press release includes "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in this press release, the words "estimates," "projected," "expects," "anticipates," "forecasts," "plans," "intends," "believes," "seeks," "may," "will," "should," "future," "propose" and variations of these words or similar expressions (or the negative versions of such words or expressions) are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, conditions or results, and involve a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other important factors, many of which are outside the control of us, that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Important factors, among others, that may affect actual results or outcomes include: our ability to execute on its business plan; our ability to retain key personnel; general economic and market conditions impacting demand for our products and services; adequacy of our funds for future operations; our future expenses, revenue and profitability; our ability to develop new products; our dependence on key suppliers, manufacturers and strategic partners; and industry trends and the competitive environment in which we operate. These and other risk factors are discussed in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. ©2019 WPT Enterprises, Inc. All rights reserved. WPT, World Poker Tour and Spade Card Design are registered trademarks of WPT Enterprises, Inc. All rights reserved. View source version on businesswire.com:https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20191113005228/en/. CONTACT: Media Contact:. World Poker Tour. Matthew.Clark@wpt.comBrian Fisher. Allied Esports Entertainment. Brian@alliedesports.comInvestor Contact:. Addo Investor Relations. lglassen@addoir.com. KEYWORD: CALIFORNIA NEVADA UNITED STATES NORTH AMERICA . INDUSTRY KEYWORD: ELECTRONIC GAMES OTHER SPORTS CASINO/GAMING RETAIL GENERAL SPORTS ENTERTAINMENT EVENTS/CONCERTS LUXURY GENERAL ENTERTAINMENT SPORTS PUBLIC RELATIONS/INVESTOR RELATIONS MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS FASHION . SOURCE: Allied Esports Entertainment, Inc. Copyright Business Wire 2019. PUB: 11/13/2019 08:00 AM/DISC: 11/13/2019 08:01 AM. http://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20191113005228/en.